.TH  PYEVOLVE-GRAPH 1 "2010-05-10" "pyevolve_graph" PYEVOLVE-GRAPH
.SH NAME
pyevolve-graph \- graphical plotting tool for Pyevolve
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pyevolve-graph
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B pyevolve-graph
command, a graphical plotting tool for programs based on Pyevolve. To use this
program, you must have \fBpython-matplotlib\fP and \fBpython-sqlite\fP
installed.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
\fBPyevolve-pygraph\fP supports the following options:
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
show a brief summary of available options and exit
.TP
.BI \-f " FILENAME\fP, " \-\-file= FILENAME
Database file to read from. default is \fI./pyevolve.db\fP.
.TP
.BI \-i " IDENTIFY\fP, " \-\-identify= IDENTIFY
The identify of evolution.
.TP
.BI \-o " OUTFILE\fP, " \-\-outfile= OUTFILE
Write the graph image to a file. Don't specify an extension, just the filename.
The file will be written in PNG format by default, but this can be changed
using the \fB\-\-extension\fP or \fB\-e\fP options.
.TP
.BI \-e " EXTENSION\fP, " \-\-extension= EXTENSION
Graph image file format. Supported options (formats) are all those supported by
\fBpython-matplotlib\fP. Currently, these should be: EMF, EPS, PDF, PNG, PS,
RAW, RGBA, SVG, SVGZ. Default is PNG.
.TP
.BI \-g " GENRANGE\fP, " \-\-genrange= GENRANGE
This is the generation range of the graph. For example, 1:30 would denote
an interval between 1 and 30.
.TP
.BI \-c " COLORMAP\fP, " \-\-colormap= COLORMAP
Sets the Color Map for the graph types \fB\-8\fP and \fB\-9\fP. Some options
are: summer, bone, gray, hot, jet, cooper, spectral. The default is \fBjet\fP.
.TP
.BI \-m, \-\-minimize
Sets the 'Minimize' mode. Default is the Maximize mode. This option makes sense
if you are minimizing your evaluation function.
.TP
.B \-0
Write all standard graphs to file. Equivalent to specifying \fB\-1\fP \fB\-2\fP
\fB\-3\fP \fB\-4\fP \fB-5\fP.
.TP
.B \-1
Error bars graph (raw scores).
.TP
.B \-2
Error bars graph (fitness scores).
.TP
.B \-3
Max/min/avg/std. dev. graph (raw scores).
.TP
.B \-4
Max/min/avg graph (fitness scores).
.TP
.B \-5
Raw and Fitness min/max difference graph.
.TP
.B \-6
Compare best raw score of two or more evolutions. You must specify the identify
as a comma-separated list with the \fB\-\-identify\fP or \fB\-i\fP options.
The maximum is 6 items.
.TP
.B \-7
Compare best fitness score of two or more evolutions. You must specify the
identify as a comma-separated list with the \fB\-\-identify\fP or \fB\-i\fP
options. The maximum is 6 items.
.TP
.B \-8
Show a heat map of population raw score distribution between generations.
.TP
.B \-9
Show a heat map of population fitness score distribution between generations.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following are some examples on how to use \fBpyevolve-graph\fP:
.PP
1. Output a graph for identify 'ex1' in PNG format (default) to
file 'graph_ex1.png':
.sp
.RS 12
.nf
pyevolve-graph \-i ex1 \-1 \-o graph_ex1
.fi
.RE
.sp
2. Output a graph for identify 'ex1' to the PDF file 'graph_ex1.pdf':
.sp
.RS 12
.nf
pyevolve-graph \-i ex1 \-1 \-o graph_ex1 \-e pdf
.fi
.RE
.sp
3. This command will plot the evolution of the generations between 10 and 20:
.sp
.RS 12
.nf
pyevolve-graph \-i ex1 \-1 \-g 10:20
.fi
.RE
.sp
4. Use \fB\-m\fP to indicate that you have minimized the evaulation function:
.sp
.RS 12
.nf
pyevolve_graph.py \-i ex1 \-1 \-m
.fi
.RE
.sp
5. Specify an identify list for the comparison output options \fB\-6\fP and
\fB\-7\fP:
.sp
.RS 12
.nf
pyevolve_graph.py \-i ex1_run1,ex1_run2,ex1_run3 \-6
.fi
.RE
.sp
Fore more examples on how to use pyevolve-graph, including sample images, users
are recommended to install the \fBpython-pyevolve-doc\fP package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/python-pyevolve/examples
Contains many examples.
.br
.SH AUTHOR
pyevolve-graph was written by Christian S. Perone <christian.perone@gmail.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Christian Kastner <debian@kvr.at>
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
